I wanted to give a brief TL didn't watch,
too long didn't watch.
This is a quick summary of kinda
the takeaways that I'm going to illustrate
throughout the entire workshop.
These are principles that you
might take at face value or
you might not fully appreciate, but
hopefully by the end of this course,
you appreciate that these
things are really important.
The first one that I wanna highlight
is asking better clarifying questions.
Anytime you're presented with a problem,
whether it's somebody stating a problem to
you, or it's just there's an issue filed,
or there's a feature that you don't
know how to implement, or whatever.
Anytime there's a problem present to you,
your first job is to understand
that problem completely.
Your first job is not to write code.
That's the last thing you do and
that's optional.
The first thing you have to
do is understand the problem.
And we cannot get that
with one single question.
That is a progressive thing, it's
a cyclical thing we have to come back to.
We have reapproach a problem and realize
later, I should have asked this before.
If you can get better at having
that almost uncanny ability to ask
the right questions up front,
that really is probably the best
approximation of seniority and
maturity and experience as an engineer,
is just the instinct to ask
the right questions earlier.
There's no magic trick to it.
In fact, I tell people that's really
the only difference between me and
any other JavaScript developer, even
somebody who just started in a boot camp,
is that I've just asked more
questions of the language and
I didn't stop when I got an answer,
I asked another question.
That's it, so just, if I have
a superpower, it's asking questions, and
so I wanna encourage you
to adopt that mindset.
It does not show weakness, it does not
show that we're not good enough or
anything like that.
In fact, it's a superpower.
If you can be the one who asks the best
questions in the room, you'll be the one
who's providing value long after
everybody else has left the room.
So I strongly encourage that.
So when you're faced with a problem,
you have to ask the right questions
to constrain the problem,
because the answers to those questions,
sometimes you won't get an answer.
They'll say, I don't know, depends, right?
But sometimes you'll get a concrete
answer and that very much may guide you
to an entirely different path for
solving the problem.
So don't forsake by getting those
sort of clarifying questions as early
as possible and
then revisiting that as often as possible.
Second one I already mentioned or
referred to,
we definitely want to balance
what we do with the processing
optimizations versus what we
do with memory optimizations.
Most of the time, people only care
about performance, the speed,
the CPU processing speed, and
they tend to neglect the memory.
And in a language like JavaScript,
it makes it even easier for
you to neglect the memory and even easier
to shoot yourself in the foot where
something is running super fast until
it completely stops for two seconds,
while it cleans up all
of your memory mistakes.
So don't make that mistake.
Do be aware at all times
of the trade-offs.
There are not always trade-offs,
by the way.
I used to think this earlier in my career.
I used to think there's no such thing
as a performance and memory optimized,
it's one or the other.
And in a lot of cases, it feels like that.
A lot of cases, the trade-offs
that we make do feel like that.
But there are times, and
you will see in this workshop,
we will come up with a solution that
is both better in performance and
better in memory management,
and that's a win-win.
So look for those, but when you can't
find those, be aware of the differences.
That means asking,
where is this application gonna run?
If it's gonna run on low-end smartphone
devices in Third World countries or
other parts of the world that don't
have the same privileged access to
high-end devices that we do.
If that's what that means,
then you might need to actually make
a totally different choice there.
Versus the only people that are ever
gonna run this are high-end Mac pros or
something like that.
So that goes back to number 1,
asking better questions,
understanding the context of
where this stuff is gonna run.
Number 3,
this is kind of a big pet peeve of mine,
I don't hear enough people say this, but
I think most of the people who teach this
really believe it,
they just don't call it out.
So I'm gonna call it out, that you
really actually need to get good at
understanding the problem and then
shaping what data structure you use or
how you use it to that problem
rather than the reverse.
Rather than trying to say all I've got
is a queue, and I've got to figure out
some way to express my problem as
if I can solve it with a queue.
Oftentimes you can solve most problems
with many different data structures,
but most of those are not
the best way to go.
So what you want to do is develop a
broader understanding of the various ways
to use data structures, to combine them,
to mix and match them just more broadly.
I mean, there's dozens and
hundreds of different data structures,
some of them general,
some of them very highly specialized.
And none of us can keep all of that in our
head, but the more of that that you have
in your head, the easier it will be for
you to identify this is more likely
the school or the group of those problems
that are gonna help me solve my problem.
These data structures
are more well-aligned.
So literally aligning the data structure
choice with the problem is one
of the biggest hurdles
that we have to get over.
Cuz our job as an algorithmist,
our job as an engineer,
is to turn what we have in our heads
into instructions for the computer.
And if those two are misaligned, our code
is going to be non-performant, buggy,
hard to maintain, and ultimately,
it's gonna get rewritten.
That's the ultimate cycle,
is that every line of code that we write
suffers that same fate that
somebody comes along later,
doesn't understand it,
and just rewrites it.
And as an algorithmist, we should be
trying to ask those questions and
think about it more carefully, so that
hopefully the code that we write is more
robust, it's gonna survive those
inevitable rewrite cycles.
Somebody comes along and says, well,
I don't know about all this other stuff,
but this thing is solid, this code
does what it's supposed to do and
it's as good as we're gonna get it.
That's sort of the ideal, if you will,
that you could shoot for.
Final point that I'll make, many of you
have probably heard the famous quote.
I did a little bit of digging, and
actually, I'm not sure that it was
even Knuth original idea, maybe he
cribbed it from a few other people.
But many of you have heard this common
quote about premature optimization
is the root of all evil don't
prematurely optimize, right?
This concept that anytime somebody
sees an engineer working on
an optimization of something,
it seems there's almost an automatic doubt
that what they're doing is even worth it.
There's this presumption that
if you're optimizing something,
you're probably prematurely optimizing it.
And what I will say is that, and
we're gonna teach this as a practice.
I could have put this as
a fifth point up here.
We're gonna teach it as a practice that
when you tackle an algorithmic problem,
the first solution that you do should
be the dumbest and worst solution.
It should be the quickest thing that you
can get that is accurate, in my opinion.
It should work, but
you should not have to spend days or
weeks trying to conceive of that solution.
Even if it's horribly non-performant,
even if it's completely impractical
to launch to production,
you actually need a reference solution, so
that the optimizations that you can do,
you can check to make sure that
you're doing it correctly.
Most people will skip over that step,
they'll try to second guess things.
I absolutely do this, I know for
a fact that an n squared algorithm, for
example, is gonna not work, so
I'll just avoid even writing the code.
And as a discipline, I'm gonna teach
you that it's really important
to have that reference implementation
that was quick to write, so
that you can benchmark, and so
that you can check your answers, okay?
Testing to make sure that you didn't
create some regression because
you were trying to optimize something.
So what I would say is that premature
optimization is not really the problem,
it's immature optimization.
There are things that you should be
optimizing from the very first moment that
you write some code, and
there are things that will never matter.
You think you're optimizing them,
but they will never matter.
I'll pick on one, for example,
that I sometimes see floating around
in the world, is that people claim,
for example, that if you use the const
keyword, that somehow magically
underneath JavaScript engine covers,
that it's gonna do less work.
Cuz it knows it's never gonna
get mutated or something.
And I don't actually know
whether that's true, but
I'm just gonna go out on a limb and
say it's completely irrelevant.
There is never going to be a case where
the choice between a var, let, and
const was the difference
between performance and
non-performing code,
that's just nonsense, it is, okay?
So immature optimization, one of
the things that I put under that umbrella,
is trying to micro-optimize or trying
to look at some implementation detail.
And say I know that V8 uses hidden
classes and blah, blah, blah, and
then tomorrow, V8 ships a new version and
all that's different.
My advice is don't bet against the future.
That practice of saying, I know now better
than the engine, better than the compiler,
better than the computer,
I know these things better than they do,
is you betting against the future
of all of those incredibly
smart folks who are working
on optimizing that stuff.
That's one of the reasons
that I like JavaScript,
is I like to be able to let it
do what it's really good at.
[LAUGH] They're really good
at optimizing JavaScript, and
I don't wanna fight against that and try
to convince JavaScript that I know better.
I certainly wouldn't wanna write a code,
I would never endorse writing
a piece of code that's gonna work great in
V8 and suck in SpiderMonkey, for example.
And that happens all the time, because
people actually feel almost an ego boost
when they learn some internal detail and
then they optimize their code for that.
And then it turns out they didn't
even care about testing it in
some other JavaScript engine.
So I would say that the real thing that
we should be worried about is immature
optimization.
How do you get more mature at it?
Practice, experience.
But don't follow the bandwagon of,
I'm not allowed to optimize now, or
I'm only allowed to optimize in this
specific way, because this guy,
this person said this or
whatever, don't follow that.
Look at the problem, follow these steps,
and that's the path, cyclically,
experience over experience
over experience,
is the path to more mature optimization.
And optimization is good, it's useful.
You need to understand actually
the full context of Knuth's quote,
which was not just that all
premature optimization is bad, but
what he was saying is that many times,
people focus on the non-critical parts of
their application and they optimize
stuff that won't actually matter.
So that's really speaking to what
I'm talking about about being more
mature with it.
If you can figure out what the critical
path is, that's the $64 million question,
what is the critical path?
It turns out that's not a binary,
it is or is not critical path.
It's extremely context-dependent.
So we have to get more mature and
we have to get better at asking questions
about our systems, our requirements,
our problems, the contexts that our code
will run in before we can ever hope to
figure out where's the 3%
that my attention should go.